# <center>File and Directory</center>

1. pwd
   
   >echo the path now
2. ls -[option] 
   >display subordinate directory
   >>-l -> list
   >>-a -> all
3. cd -[option] [path]
   >go to the specified directory
   >>cd .. -> return to the last directory
   >>cd ~ or cd -> go to the home directory
   >>cd / -> go to the root directory
4. mkdir -[option] "dirname"
   
   >-p -> make multilevel directories
5. rmdir -[option] "dirname"
   >remove an **empty** directory
   >>if the directory is not empty:
   >>**rm -rf "dirname“**
6. touch "file1" ["file2" ...]
   
   >create an empty file
7. cp -[option] src dstpath
   
   >-r : recursion, copy the whole folder
8. rm -[option] "name"
   >remove a file or directory
   >-r : recursion
   >-f : force
9.  mv -[option] "name" dstpath
    >function
    >1. move a file or directory to another path (cut)
    >2. **rename** a file or directory
10. cat -[option] "filename"
    >**readonly**: view the file content but cannot modify the file
    >>-n : display line number
    >> cat "filename" | **more** : to read the file page by page
11. more "filename"
    
    >view a **whole** file with VI
12. less "file"
    
    >view a **fraction** of the file
13. \> : output redirects & \>\> : append
    >\> : rewrite, cover the original content
    >\>\> : append, add some content to a file
    >1. ls -l > "file"
    >>write the content of command "ls -l" to the "file"(cover the original file or create a new file)
    >2. ls -al >> "file"
    >>append the content of coommand to the "file"
    >3. cat "file1" > "file2"
    >>copy the content of "file1" to "file2", cover the original content of "file2"
    >
    >4. echo "content" >> "file"
14. echo -[option] [content]
    >output content on the console
    >>Practicla useage : 
    >>1. echo the environment variable
    >>2. echo the environment path
15. head -[option] "file"
    >view the begining of the file
    >
    >>-n 5 : view the first 5 lines of the file (default 10 lines)
16. tail -[option] "file"
    >veiw the tail of the file
    >>-n 5 : view the last 5 lines of the file (default 10 lines)
    >>-f (**regular use**) :  Real-time tracking of all updates to the modified document
17. ln -s [src file or dir] [softlink name]
    
    >soft link : create a shortcut

